This is a node about running Emacs on so called "dumb terminals".  Well,
they're not that dumb really, because they can do all sorts of things
by themselves, and most people emulate these things on a daily basis.

Most of this applies to unixy systems, like the GnuIsNotUnix, often
erroneously called Linux.  EmacsOnVMS is also a candidate topic here,
and ''maybe'' EmacsForOSTwo, but other systems are not likely to be
accessed via a terminal.

There's a lot of goodies for terminals at http://vt100.net.

The most basic variable on the unix-machines is <code>TERM</code>, and
it gets it's default from the configuration file of mother of all
processes, the ''init''.  This file is usually called "/etc/inittab".
The value of this variable should obviously match the capabilities of
you terminal.  If in doubt, "vt220" covers most of the terminals, and
"vt100" almost all.  Other variables for shells of the sh-family are
COLUMNS and LINES, and these should match your terminals settings too.
I won't get into line-characteristics here, like speed, number of data
and stop bits.

When Emacs starts, it tries to load a library called
"term/''value_of_term''", f.ex. "term/vt420".  These usually set quite
decent defaults.

You do want to have hardware flowcontrol, and turn it on from the
terminal itself, and for the ''getty'' process too which is the thing
that initializes the terminal line.  Well, you can use '''stty'''(1)
too, to tweak you serial line.  So you'll propably wan't to have a
''null-modem cable'', or real modems if you're a bit further away, or
got some extras lying about.

The flowcontrol is crucial at speeds above 9600bps.  The XON/XOFF
protocol, which sucks anyway, might interfere with Emacs'
<code>C-s</code> and <code>C-q</code> events, so you do want RTS/CTS.
The library ''flow-ctrl'' provides some convenience features, most
notably the command <code>enable-flow-control</code> which also remaps
these keys.  Other ways to handle use of XON/XOFF include using the
unix command <code>stty -ixon</code> or <code>(set-input-mode t nil
t)</code> from Emacs.  Either way, no matter what your setting will
be, you will miss the command <code>recenter</code> that will re-draw
the screen.  By default it's bound to <code>C-l</code>.

=Notes about certain terminals=

==DEC's VT-series of terminals==

Terminals by Digital Equipment Corporation, or
<code>|d|i|g|i|t|a|l|</code> are common, and often emulated.  Maybe
the most common terminal mode of all is the ''vt100'', and also
''vt101'', ''vt102'' and ''vt220''.  Emacs handles there terminals
quite well.

Most of the special keys work by default, tho there's some quirks.  At
least the VT420, like many other DEC terminals don't have a proper
"ESC" key, but the sequence can be generated with <code>C-3</code> or
with <code>C-[</code>.  Emacs' term/ libraries also map the f11 key as
an additional ESC for some DEC terminals (vt220, vt320 and vt420 at
least), so there's three to choose from.

Make sure you use the "vt420 mode, 7bit controls", not with 8bit
controls.  These 8bit controls are not defined, and rarely used with
unixy computers, which is bit of a pity...

The Alt key doesn't work as expected.

Certain values for the keyboard type from the terminal's menus
(f.ex. "Finnish keyboard") make the <code>S-3</code> produce
section-symbol "ยง", and not the hash-symbol "#" one expects.  The
''compose character'' -key is used to compensate this, by
<code>compose + +</code>.

The terminal's keyboard also has two modes, "typewriting keys" and
"data processing keys".  For instance the former allow the keys left
of RET to be used for scandinavian chars with a finnish keyboard, the
latter enables the curly braces, brackets and others on the same keys.
This is a bit of a nuisance, but again, can be compensated for with
the compose key.

=Success stories=

==tekonivel's DEC VT420==

[[tekonivel]] occasionally uses a DEC VT420 over a ''null-modem
cable'' to a GnuIsNotUnix system, and it works just fine.  Though the
speed is set quite low, to 9600, it's still usable, as Emacs wisely
updates only the parts of screen that have changed.  The VT420 is used
in a mode with 132 columns and 48 rows, page-length also set to 48 to
get fullscreen pages.  The cable is simple, and doesn't provide
hardware flowcontrol.  There's actually none in use, because the speed
is low enough.

Actually the terminal is used in VT220 emulation mode, because the
"vt420" termcap entry doesn't happen to be installed on one of the
machines it's used for.  vt220 mode is the default for the line in
/etc/inittab of the host computer, as well as for the terminal itself.

The Alt key doesn't work at all, which is a bit of a pain in the
neck.
