Buttonizing is enabled by default (to disable it, use M-x customize-variable RET erc-modules).

ErcButton gives you the ability to "buttonize" text.  Once a piece of
text is buttonized, you can middle-click it or hit Enter on it to
trigger the corresponding action.  You can jump to the last button
with C-c C-w C-b, and to the next button with C-c C-w C-f.

== Buttons ==

When you use erc-button-mode, '''URLs''' will be buttonized.  Clicking
on them will use BrowseUrl, so you'll probably want to use the browser
of your choice.  Example:

    (setq browse-url-browser-function 'browse-url-galeon)

'''Nicknames''' are also highlighted.  Basically, you can click on a
nickname, and choose between the following actions: Msg, Whois, Op,
Deop, and Kick.  To register more actions, customize
`erc-nick-popup-alist'. 

Note that this only works if `erc-button-buttonize-nicks' is t. -- zeDek

'''Interlinks''' are URL abbreviations used on Wikis.  Example:
<nowiki>Emacs:ErcButton</nowiki> is an interlink, and "Emacs:" the
abbreviation to the wiki URL.

The following interlinks are currently defined:

* <nowiki>Ward, Wiki, WardsWiki, TheWiki</nowiki>
* <nowiki>EmacsWiki</nowiki>

'''Files''' in this site's ElispArea are linked: <nowiki>Lisp:filename.el</nowiki>

'''Google''' queries are linked: Google:mitre+report+dod.

'''RFCs''' are linked: RFC 822, RFC#822, RFC:822

Elisp '''symbols''' enclosed in a backquote and a quote, e.g. `load-path'.

'''Info nodes''' are linked: Info:"(emacs)Regexps"

'''Internet time''': @500

To add more buttonization cases, customize `erc-button-alist'.

== Typing Interlinks Using Abbrevs ==

Note that using Interlinks is bad for all other users without these
customizations.  Instead of using buttons for Interlinks on the
receiving side (which is geeky and clever and shuts other people out),
consider defining abbrevs on the sending side.  Then Interlinks get
expanded as you type, and the resulting URL is probably clickable in
all IRC clients, Emacs or not.

Use M-x edit-abbrevs to enter the following one, after
"(erc-mode-abbrev-table)":

<pre>
    "ewiki"   0   "http://www.emacswiki.org/cgi-bin/wiki.pl"
</pre>

This will allow you to type <nowiki>"ewiki?SandBox"</nowiki> and it
will expand to the complete URL.

It would be easier to define a global abbrev, however.  See AbbrevMode
for more.

----
[[ERC]]
