= HOWTO Read feeds in Emacs via Email with Wanderlust, or Gnus, (or mutt, or Thunderbird, etc.) =

== Why? ==

If you are like me, you already have a system for reading email. You
have a program that you know well. Maybe you have email filters, or
maybe you dump it all in one place. Maybe you keep all your email in
your inbox, or maybe you tidily file it away when you are done with
it. You might read your email in mutt, or Wanderlust, or Mew, or Gnus,
or even Thunderbird. Maybe you use IMAP to keep your mail synchronized
across multiple systems.

Wouldn’t it be nice if you could use this system as a feed reader?

Wouldn’t it be nice to have a feed reader that is not *similar* to an
interface you already use, but a feed reader that is the *same* as an
interface you already use?

== Screenshot ==

See RssToEmailPlusWLScreenshot for a Wanderlust screenshot or
RssToEmailThunderbirdHtml for a Thunderbird HTML mail screenshot.

== How? ==

Use rss2email.

The rest of this document tells you how.

The first step is to get rss2email. The best version I have found is here: https://github.com/wking/rss2email

Install this in a place where it can be run regularly via cron or some
other mechanism, and has an SMTP server available to it.

Choose an email address to send mail to, and an SMTP server to use.
You probably want to send your feeds to a special email account or
else filter them into another folder than your main email.

(Keep in mind that you may be sending a significant quantity of email
through the SMTP server. Some email systems may have quotas on the
amount of email sent per day which you may run up against, especially
when testing the system. Namely: gmail, which limits SMTP to a couple
hundred messages/day.)

(There used to be a lot of information here about configuring rss2email, but the version found here https://github.com/wking/rss2email contains details instructions on installing and configuring.)

== Reading with Wanderlust ==

A few tips & tricks for reading your news in the Wanderlust mail
reader follow.

=== Folders ===

I use a filter folder to allow me to visit a folder which contains
only unread or important news items. The folder looks like:

    /flag:digest/%INBOX:me@example.org:993!

I can visit this folder and only see messages that I have not seen or
messages that I have flagged as ‘important’.

=== Quickly visiting an entry ===

If I want to visit an entry on the web, perhaps because it did not
contain the full text, I want a quick way to do so. I use the
following code to allow me to hit C-c C-c in summary mode & quickly
visit the entry:

    ;; need to add X-RSS-URL to this list
    (setq elmo-msgdb-extra-fields
          '([...]
            "X-RSS-URL"))
    
    (defun egh:wl-summary-visit-rss-entry ()
      (interactive)
      (let* ((msg (elmo-message-entity
                   wl-summary-buffer-elmo-folder wl-summary-buffer-current-msg))
             (url (elmo-message-entity-field msg 'x-rss-url)))
        (browse-url url)))
    
    (define-key wl-summary-mode-map "\C-c\C-c" 'egh:wl-summary-visit-rss-entry)

