Hello all.

I do edit EmacsWiki from time to time.  I've got some thoughts about
it, and about wiki-editing in general, and i'll possibly write about
some of them at this spot someday in the future.

==Emacs usage==

Yeah, i use Emacs.  GnuEmacs.  I always use a RemoteEmacs from this
one Digital Server 5305 i have access to.  It's an DEC Alpha running
Debian GNU.  We've got EmacsForDebian installed there, version 21.2.1
but after fantasising about downloading, configuring, compiling and
installing a development Emacs for myself (and other users too) under
my own home directory for years but not daring to do so, being a mere
user of the system, i've finally done it.  I decided to grab
[[MultiTTYSupport]] EmacsFromArch, and it's working fine, but i've
only recently started using it.

I must admit that i spent a very questionable year running Windows XP
at home, because i simply couldn't be bothered to set up a real
computer for myself.  I used a terminal emulator over ssh to that
Alpha, and ran Emacs on a tty.  Finally things are improving, as i've
once again set up a Debian GNU box to serve both as my personal
workstation, and as a server for the household.

When with an X11 server, i've always ran this RemoteEmacs over
ssh-tunneled X11 from across the town.  At a previous residence it
became very clear that i sure did want to compress the traffic going
through the 512/512kbps ADSL-line we had.  At times things got
''very'' sticky.  Very very so, i sometimes even doubted my own
sanity.  However i wished to keep to this idea of keeping all my
things at a remote, internet-accessible machine that gets backups made
regularly.  Then, no matter where i am, i could step into the same,
familiar environment by using the computer i'm at as a mere terminal,
X11 or dumb.  When the lines is not clogged, it was peachy.  At our
current household we've got a thicker line, but it's in quite heavy
use too.

Even when working on X11, i often don't use the mouse with Emacs, well
sometimes for SwitchingBuffers with <code>C-mouse-1</code> or from
menus, because that way i won't mess up my window setup with
BufferMenu.  Now that i've began to use the IswitchBuffers, it isn't
really necessary, as i get enough feedback in the MiniBuffer.
IswitchBuffers is great, and comes for free (no installation required
plus no new keys to learn).  If it's laggy day, using the mouse seems
like a very bad idea.

I've looked into other ways to compress the X11 traffic than
ssh-compression and have reported about it on a page discussing
running a RemoteEmacs.  I did encounter the EmacsLbxProblems when
trying it.  For the short while it worked, it ''did'' seem snappier,
which would be nice.  Experiences with dxpc are positive.  On the
client-side dxpc reports compression ratio of about 6.5:1 and 4:1 on
the server-side.  It's running through the compressed ssh-tunnel.
Though i don't have real data about the traffic, this acceleration
most certainly makes a significant difference!  There's some
automation left to do for me, to get the setup and authorization
automated robustly.

All in all, this works very well.

===Sometimes on a dumb terminal too===

Sometimes i ran my EmacsOnTerminal, an DEC VT420 we had hooked to a
GNU box via serial interface.

==Packages i use===

Most important packages for me under Emacs are [[emacs-w3m]], which is
my primary web-browser.  I've also observed myself often WastingTime
on the InternetRelayChat, on FreeNode's EmacsChannel, under the
registered nick '''tekonivel'''.  Though i do babble quite a lot at
times with an absolutely horrible signal/noise ratio, worry not, i
will shut my hole if theres a lot of traffic to clutter.

This might raise the MuaWar, but I use [[MH-E]] interface to my MH
mail-handling system, but often use it directly too, from the shell.
Yes, i don't use GNUS, tho i have nothing against it.  I read several
Usenet groups.  I've got a set of groups i read and post to with
'''trn'''(1), and another set i read with Gnus.

I follow a few RSS feeds with NewsTicker, mostly MeatBall:SlashDot,
MeatBall:KuroShin.  Why do i do such things, and not something
useful... i don't know.  I'm basically just a sly bastard, i guess.  I
don't know who i'm helping being so llame... oh well.

I use the EmacsWikiMode to write ugly little reviews and notes about
computergames, movies and such.  I kind of hope it will eventually
grow into a habit of having quite a high output rate to the 'net.
I've got loads of things to say; not to some person specificly, but in
general.  I reckon it's called ranting.  We'll see what comes out if
it.  I intend to move from EmacsWikiMode to EmacsMuse soonish.

PlannerMode is interesting and impressive too from the little i know,
and now that i have more interest in getting myself organised and
keeping notes than a couple of years ago, i'll see if i could put the
PlannerMusePort to some use.

Other modes...?  Well, the basic stuff everybody uses i guess.

==History==

I started using Emacs after years of '''vim'''(1) implementation of
vi.  I do know my '''ed'''(1), thus also '''sed'''(1) and '''ex'''(1),
and they're perfectly fine tools.  I'm not here about that, tho.
Initially i only used Emacs as a framework around the [[w3m]] browser,
to get a bit familiarized with Emacs.  From there i picked up more
stuff, and nowadays i've always got my GnuEmacs open, and i spend most
of my time at it.  I even swapped my trustworthy ircII for
EmacsIRCClient.

==I try to keep my configuration generic==

I prefer keeping my Emacs initialization files general enough to use
the same file on any hosts i happen to be on, on any version or
flavour of Emacs.  Because of my lacking understanding of EmacsLisp,
this is not the case at the moment.

I've tried to generalize as much of my visual setup as possible too.
Surely you would not like how it looks, but i do, and not only because
it's set up in a general, elegant, X11/*nix way.  All the colours,
fonts and such are set up to my X11 servers resource database from
cpp-enchanted ResourceFiles via '''xrdb'''(1x).  While at it, i came
across a ProblemSettingCertainFaceAttributesFromXResources with my
Emacs 21.2.1, but VivekDasmohapatra (alias [[fledermaus]]) already
wrote some EmacsLisp to patch it, and also sent a bug-report, so maybe
the quirk will later go away altogether.

The KDE and Gnome toolkits don't have much respect for the X11
resources, but i don't use programs utilizing those toolkits much
anyway.  I prefer the original X11 concepts, and find homogenizing the
desktop-environment (KDE, Gnome, Windows, Meatball:MacOsx, AmigaOS)
will make them all very dull.

I've got most of my dotfiles under ConcurrentVersionsSystem so that
they'll be available to other machines.  I'm planning to go for
ArchVersionControl, or possibly DaRcs.

I should describe my setup more throughoutly, how i'm running the
EmacsFromArch ''in-place'', and other code from version control
systems too.  How my personal EmacsLisp libraries are installed under
<code>~/share/emacs/site-lisp/</code>.

===My configuration files===

I don't currently have my init-files online, for no specific reason.
If you'd like to see them, hesitate not to ask on the
InternetRelayChat for instance.  I'll be happy to share them.  They're
quite pretty, but propably bad EmacsLisp.  The comments are in
finnish, but i'll translate them to english for you, it's no problem!
If you care to take a peek at screenshots my ---let's face it--- very
pretty X11 desktop, some are available at
http://kirjakaapeli.lib.hel.fi/~mace/desktop-en.html.

----

CategoryHomepage CategoryRemoteEmacs
