LBX is a scheme for minimizing bandwidth consumption over X
connections. It's very nice if you want to run RemoteEmacs (which see)
on a system which is not in your local network.

See http://www.paulandlesley.org/faqs/LBX-HOWTO.html for general
information about LBX.

However, Emacs and LBX don't seem to be able to cooperate properly,
and the Emacs will fatally freeze.
http://www.geocrawler.com/archives/3/337/1998/6/0/1846958/ describes
the problem.  An unverified rumour has it that turning on
<code>x-synchronize</code> will make this problem not appear.

Other ways for accelerating RemoteEmacs exist too, some based on
similar, but different systems than LBX (xdpc, nx), some different
(ssh compression).

Also, you can run Emacs in an Xterm on the remote system.  You lose
much of the motivation for running X but it's still better than
"blind" remote access, and LBX (or similar) can be a real lifesaver if
your X connections keep getting disconnected because of timeouts or
other network flakiness. (But then you could also look into
screen(1).)

Hint for LBX with Emacs users: for better performance, turn off the
menu-bar (use M-` instead), tool-bar and scrollbars (these often need
updating whenever you switch buffers).  Use ElScreen or Escreen
instead of creating more than one frame (frame switching is slow as
well).

=Bugspotters united=

Reports of this problem follow.  Input from new Emacses, especially
from the CVS would be valuable here... and if anyone has seen anything
about this on any mailing-list, don't hesitate to add it here.  Also
getting more input about other X11 servers than XFree86 would tell
where the issue lies.

==Positives==

These setups are known to encounter the problem.

; Emacs 19.34+X11R6 Xsun and XFree86 3.3.2: Various setups described in
the original post, see above.

; Emacs 20.7+XFree86 3.3.6: It seems still to be current as of Emacs
20.7 and XFree86 version 3.3.6. (Debian 2.2 "stable" distribution --
OK, so that's not terribly state of the art either.)

; Emacs 21.3.50.2+XFree86 4.3: I have been using "GNU Emacs 21.3.50.2
(i686-pc-linux-gnu) of 2003-06-26" from the Gentoo
app-editors/emacs-cvs package with lbxproxy (XFree86 4.3) for a while
now (I update to CVS frequently).  My Emacs binary is built with the
GTK+2 toolkit.  I've never experienced anything like problem described
above.  It may well be that this bug is no longer relevant.  --
MatthewKennedy

; Emacs 21.1: I can confirm that this bug is around as of Emacs 21.1,
though it's infrequent that I encounter it.  -- JoelHolveck

; Emacs 21.2.1+XFree86 4.2.1+lbxproxy from XFree86 4.1.0: I tried this
yesterday on a setup with ("GNU Emacs 21.2.1 (alpha-debian-linux-gnu,
X toolkit, Xaw3d scroll bars) of 2002-03-27 on escher, modified by
Debian" running over ssh-tunnel to an i686-pc-linux-gnu with XFree86
4.2.1.  The lbxproxy on the Alpha was from XFree86 4.1.0.  Didn't
work... what a pity. -- [[tekonivel]]

; Emacs 20.7.2+Xfree86 4.2.1+lbxproxy from XFree86 4.1.0: My "GNU Emacs
20.7.2 (alpha-debian-linux-gnu, X toolkit) of Fri Apr 5 2002 on lully
modified by Debian" also froze after some time, possibly because i
triggered the but with XEmacs connected to the same lbxproxy --
[[tekonivel]]

==Negatives==

These setups seem to work.

; Emacs 19.34+Exceed: Also from the original post, see above for a
link.

; XEmacs 21.4+Xfree86 4.2.1+lbxproxy from XFree86 4.1.0: Though X11
select&paste from "XEmacs 21.4 (patch 6) \"Common Lisp\" [Lucid]
(alpha-debian-linux, Mule) of Wed Apr 10 2002 on lully" seems to
trigger errors

    Xlib: unexpected async reply (sequence 0x6ffb)!
    lbxproxy: reply seq #0x6ffc > internal seq 0x6ffb
    Xlib: unexpected async reply (sequence 0x6ffd)!
    invalid SendTagData request: tag 0x91 type 3

: followed by lbxproxy spewing out these

    lbxproxy: reply seq #0x6ffe > internal seq 0x6ffd

: when i kill text on ''this'', different Emacs which is not ran over
the lbxproxy, the XEmacs hasn't died yet.  The shown sequence numbers
increments, but the left is always greater by one.

: Triggering the bug with XEmacs possibly froze the GnuEmacs 20
connected via the same lbxproxy at the same time.  If i select text
with the mouse in the XEmacs, i get more of those "Xlib: unexpected
async reply" errors. -- [[tekonivel]]

----
CategoryRemoteEmacs
